## What is good about spreadsheets?
Google sheets allows you to do several things important to data, first you can give your data a home and you will be able to know where it is and how to access it. Google sheets can allow you to graph your data to see trends and patterns, and explore your data to see what it is and the best way to approach something. You can also sort and filter your data to be able to easily see what is missing, and what you actually have on you, if you are a business you can find new clients, and figure out how to take care of the ones you have. You can also summarize data to be able to simplify things in such a way that you can deliver good insights and good decisions for your company or organization. Spreadsheets can also help you work creatively, this is because it can help you free time to be able to be creative, it can also help you make a decision to make your life easy.

## Visual Analysis
In data one thing to remember is <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">pictures first</mark>, pictures are easy for someone to understand and can be used to make sure someone gets the big picture easy,  for example four datasets may be equal but by just showing the data you won’t be able to get that. Graphs allow you to see patterns and trends easier by showing the relation between data, even a simple line graph can help you understand. <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">People are always good at visual analysis</mark>, so make sure you always start by looking at your data, by using graphs to see what your data holds so you can then work on the data with knowledge of what it holds.

## Spreadsheet Fundamentals
### Basic Info
In a spread sheet application each sheet is comprised of tabs, tabs are refereed to by their column name then row name, so a cell in column B and row 5 is referred to as cell B5. A lot of the time the first row in a spreadsheet is the column names, one way to make sure it stays the same is by moving the <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">thick line near the top </mark> under the row, this is called freezing rows and columns.

### Formatting
You can sort a sheet by values in a single column, so sorting by Id, cost, score, whatever you have that makes sense. When you <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">highlight some numbers</mark> in google sheets it gives you the sum of the current numbers you are highlighting. In sheets <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">proportion</mark> is basically the numerical representation of a percent, you can <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">format a proportion as a percent by clicking the %</mark>. When you go to format, <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">accounting</mark> gives numbers a dollar sign and comma, <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">financial</mark> formatting is similar but has no dollar sign, <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">currency</mark> is like accounting but a little but different, <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">the difference is when the numbers are negative</mark>. Accounting and financial just uses parenthesis around numbers for negative, but currency uses an actual minus sign. You can also format for dates, so the day number and even time are something you can format for in google sheets. In google sheets one type of data you can format for is strings, there is a function called **=GOOGLEFINANCE(“stock name”)** to refer to stock prices, you can also refer to images by surrounding the URL in quotes in a cell.

### Appearance Changes
In sheets you can change the font, if you wanted another font you can just click to where it says arial and change it, if the font you do not want is not there you can go to the add your own font button and add one you want. Next to it is also how to change your fonts size, so if you are putting headings or titles you want big you can make them big, text can also be made bold and italic, and the colors can be changed.  Cells can be filled with a certain color or even be given a cell border, this should not be used often but maybe has a specific benefit for your data.  Lets say your <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">cells are different sizes</mark>, you can make them <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">snap to fit</mark> by clicking the border between them, or you can <mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">make them the same size</mark> by dragging the border of the last one and letting it go. One thing you can do is make text wrap if it is to big for the cell, you can also make them sit on the top if you don’t want the text sitting in the middle or on the bottom.

### Tidy Data
<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Tidy data</mark> is the concept that it is easier to manipulate, and easier to send from one software to another, but this is where sheets can be difficult, sheets can be very flexible which is where the problem comes in. In sheets you can merge cells, but this can make it extremely difficult to send to other software. 

### Tidy Data Tips
Some ways to tidy up your data is:
- Remove merged cells and where that title is make it a new column, this way you get the same info but in a good format.
- If you can comments make sure you can make the comments reflect your data, so if one column may work better as two because of conflicting interest or views do it.
- Lets say you have tons of data, to make it easier for other places to analyze you could put one type of data in one sheet, so location related data in another sheet. This depends on if you are going to export data to other sources like SQL.

### Entering Data
Sheets and excel have something called propagating, for example if you have cells with the same pattern and want a few more, you can highlight them and drag them to other columns to copy that pattern.